##Abstract
Background: Clinical alarms have become an integral part of the medical environment. In order to monitor a patient's physiological state and detect all abnormal changes in a patient’s condition these monitoring systems are highly sensitive. However, the current alarm systems specificity has been reduced in favor of a higher sensitivity. Multiple studies reveal that false alarms of these systems range from 72%-99%, a rate which negatively impacts both patients and staff. The large number of false alarms has caused healthcare professionals to turn down the volume of audible signals, adjust the alarm setting beyond limits that are safe and appropriate for the patient, and ignore or even deactivate alarms, resulting in patient deaths. The patient’s safety is also compromised by high noise levels in the patient room, disturbing sleep, impeding recovery, and lengthening stay.
Methods: We apply a decision-making approach that imitates a medical specialist who diagnoses a patient's condition based on several parameters simultaneously sampled by monitor sensors (e.g., heart rate detection from electrocardiogram, pulseoximetry oxygen saturation and arterial line). Most of the monitors are equipped with algorithm for alarm generation based only on a single parameter (e.g., heart rate or mean arterial pressure). Comparing multiple data sources for a patient's diagnosis may verify the alarm condition and decrease the rate of false alarms. Our method uses a predefined threshold that triggers an alarm when one or more parameters have crossed the threshold for one or more minutes. The problem is that the suggested expert-based definitions require information from several sensors in parallel; however, often not all the sensors are available. The lack of parameters results in poor performances, less efficiency, and an increase in false alarms. To overcome this deficit, we used a machine learning approach. Because its design of algorithms generalizes from observations, and makes predictions about unseen data, machine learning can be applied in overcoming the missing parameters. In the last decade, random forests have become became a popular ensemble learning algorithm, as they achieve state-of-the-art performance in many fields. In this work, we trained the random forest model on data that contains a lack of parameters while the full expert-based definitions (without deficiencies) were used as the ground truth. Random forest classification results were compared to the partial expert-based definitions model while rules that contained the missing parameters were removed respectively.
Results: In the first check, all of the clinical alarm scenarios were examined on the same dataset, while in the second check each scenario was examined on a separate dataset. In the first check, the absence of HR and ARTBPS parameters has led to the poorest performances of random forest and partial expert-based definitions respectively in cases of one missing parameter. In this case, Youden's Index was equal to 0.94 and 0.22 with a Precision of 0.98 and 0.56 for random forest and partial expert-based definitions respectively. In cases of two missing parameters, the absence of ARTBPS+ ARTBPM in random forest and ARTBPS+PAPD in partial expert-based definitions have led to the lowest performances. In this case, Youden's Index was equal to 0.91 and 0.01 with a Precision of 0.97 and 0.5 for random forest and partial expert-based definitions respectively. In case of three missing parameters the absence of HR + ARTBPS + ARTBPM in random forest model and HR + ARTBPS + PAPD in partial expert-based definitions model have given the worst results. In this case, Youden's Index was equal to 0.83 and 0 with a precision of 0.93 and 0.5 for random forest and partial expert-based definitions respectively. The lowest score in the second check was received for Hypovolemia 2 and Tachycardia Hypotension while HR + ARTBPM + ARTBPS were missing for random forest and partial expert-based definitions respectively. In this case, Youden's Index was equal to 0.22 and -0.09 with a Precision of 0.56 and 0.51 for random forest and partial expert-based definitions respectively. Random forest has a clear advantage over partial expert-based definitions while its performance was equal or higher compared to partial expert-based definitions consistently in all the tests.
Conclusions: A random forest framework had a high classification result of predicting patient status and reducing false alarm rates of intensive care unit monitor devices. This machine learning approach was based on the knowledge of a specialist with years of experience and has proved that its decision-making capability was equal to that of an expert. In addition, it has proved that in cases where sensors are lacking, its decision-making performances for the patient are much higher than that of the partial expert-based definitions and hence can reduce significantly the false alarms rate. Moreover, we conclude that crossing information between several sensors can suppress false alarms and increase Youden's Index and Precision measures; thus, the present single-sensor based monitors are less efficient than the proposed expert-based definitions. The presented method can be used as a decision-making system that assists the doctor in making a better decision about the appropriate treatment for the patient. 

Keywords: Intensive Care Unit, False Alarms, Machine Learning, Random Forests
